--- 
layout: post
title: About
permalink: about.html
date: 2009-07-14 16:50:32 -05:00
mt_id: 4
---

My name is Clint Shryock, I'm a software engineer specializing in development for the Web and Cocoa (iOS/Mac).  I currently live in central Missouri with my Wife, daughter, and two dogs.  

__History__  
My interest in technology started in 1993 at age 11 when I met [Tie Fighter](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/index.html?curid=12692241). From there many other Lucas Arts games followed, and I wound up studying 3D Studio Max and AutoCAD in Highschool.  

I studied Computer Science at the University of Missouri, Columbia.  C was the first programming language I ever learned, followed by Assembly and Perl.  When I wasn't having fun in college I took interest in web development and got a part time job doing html/css/perl for a local marketing group that owned several local radio stations and needed work on their websites.  

After college I went to work for the Department of Insurance at the State of Missouri as a Lotus Notes developer, even though when asked in the interview I told them honestly that I had never heard of Lotus Notes.  After a short while I had become the Lotus Notes developer, MS Access developer, and took over development/maintenance of the departments website.  

While working at the State I got my first Apple computer, a Powerbook G4, and immediatly dove into Cocoa development using Objective-c and PyObjC.  It's been my hobby ever since.  

After 2 years I left the State job in 2006 for a position at [Delta Systems Group](http://deltasys.com) as a web developer, where I still work today.  

__Education__  
Univeristy of Missouri - Columbia 2000-2004  
Received a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science with a minor in Mathematics. My other topics of interest were Psychology/Sociology and History.

__Skills__  
Web-Standards development using PHP and the Zend Framework, CSS and Javascript (YUI and jQuery) <br />
Databas development using PostgreSQL and MySQL<br />
Objective-c / Cocoa for Mac OS X desktop development

__Internet Systems Administration__  
Both Unix/Linux servers, Apache 2, MySQL and PostgreSQL database servers, Subversion and Git version tracking

__Social__  
- [Flickr](http://www.flickr.com/photos/ctshryock)  
- [Twitter](http://twitter.com/ctshryock)  
- [GitHub](http://github.com/ctshryock)  

__Personal__  
My Wife and I enjoy outdoor activities like running, biking and walking our two dogs, Linux and Nero. 
