---
title: Projects
layout: post
type: page
permalink: projects.html
---

A good majority of my work is private to each client, so I can't give you a full tour of what I do, but I can at least list some projects I've worked on.

###Web Development
- Core developer for [EasyTRC][5], a Total Resource Campaign contract management system in use by serverl Chamber of Commerce organizations to manage their clients, customers and contracts online.

- Working with PHP4/5 and the Zend Framework for MVC applications

- Using and Administrating PostgreSQL and MySQL databases

- Javascript libraries including Prototype, Script.aculo.us, JQuery and the Yahoo User Interface library (YUI)

- Using 3rd party software/libraries such as, but not limited to, WordPress, Google Maps, reCaptcha, Authorize.net, and the PEAR library.

*Majority of my PHP and Database work is private to each client, so I'm not at liberty to disclose them specifically*
###Desktop Software Development
I've been doing Cocoa development for Mac OS X using Cocoa and Foundation libraries as a hobby for 3 years now.

- Designed and developed [Faces.app][1], an application for managing and updating your user profile image on Twitter via the Twitter API

- Designed and developed [GithubNotifier.app][2], an application that posts notifications on your desktop with any network activity from your Github account, via Growl notifications

- Core contributor to [MGTwitterEngine][3], an Objective-C Twitter integration library for Mac OS X and iPhone.

- Contributor to [CocoaREST][4], a collection of Cocoa classes to interact with RESTful services (including Twitter).

###Open Source Contributions
Git and [GitHub][6] have gotten me more involved with open source software development. Already I'm actively contributing to three separate Cocoa projects and always looking for good web projects to support.

[1]: /faces-app.html
[2]: /github-notifier.html
[3]: http://github.com/ctshryock/MGTwitterEngine
[4]: http://github.com/ctshryock/CocoaREST
[5]: http://easytrc.com
[6]: http://github.com