---
layout: post
date: 2016-01-04
title: "Daily writing. Again. Maybe."
category: posts
tags: writing 
---



Trying this daily writing thing again. I attempted this last January, the idea being I’d write a little bit each day. I think it lasted 1 week. Maybe 2. Definitely didn’t make it out of February. 

A lot has changed since January 2015. Soon I’ll be a father again, with our third child expected at the end of February. Still don’t feel like I know what I’m doing as a parent, but so far I’m doing OK faking it. 

Goals I’d like to accomplish this year:

- Author an open source library, maybe people will actually use it
- Compete in the CrossFit Open, and do “better” than I did last year
- Read a new sci-fi series. Diamond Age, Culture, *something*…

Goals for the month of January:

- make a better list of goals for this year
- *start* an open source library/tool
- Finish The Senior Software Engineer
- Contribute to [Otto](http://www.ottoproject.io)
- Get better at Golang (how do you quantify this…)
- Master Skin Thrall, Tyrande
- Be an OK Muradin

The last two for January are kind of sad/funny, as they relate to [Heroes of the Storm][1], a game I’m currently addicted to. But it’s fun, so setting goals is good. 

Things I should think about:

- OSS manager position at HashiCorp – maybe unlikely I’ll get this but it’s better to try in earnest and fail than not try at all
- Names for third child

Things I can write about

- Working on Terraform
- Golang.. something

Just a brain dump blog post at this point, trying to kick-start the writing thing…


[1]: http://us.battle.net/heroes/en/
